---
title: Overview of Defender for Databases
description: Discover the advantages and capabilities of Microsoft Defender for Databases, including support for PostgreSQL, MySQL, and MariaDB.
ms.date: 12/11/2024
ms.topic: overview
ms.author: dacurwin
author: dcurwin
#customer intent: As a reader, I want to understand the purpose and features of Microsoft Defender for open-source relational databases so that I can make informed decisions about its usage.
---

# Overview of Defender for Databases

Microsoft Defender for Cloud's Defender for Databases plan is a security solution designed to protect your database estate from potential threats and vulnerabilities. The Defender for Databases plan provides threat protection and security management across various cloud environments.

Microsoft Defender for Databases consists of four main components, each designed to protect different types of databases:

- [Microsoft Defender for Azure SQL databases](defender-for-sql-introduction.md) - Provides threat protection for Azure SQL databases, detecting and responding to potential security threats.

- [Microsoft Defender for SQL servers on machines](defender-for-sql-usage.md) (can also be [enabled on a Log Analytics workspace](enable-plan-workspace.md)) - Offers security for SQL servers running on virtual machines or physical servers, and can also be enabled on a Log Analytics workspace for enhanced monitoring and threat detection.

- [Microsoft Defender for open-source relational databases](defender-for-databases-introduction.md) - Ensures the security of open-source relational databases such as PostgreSQL, MySQL, and MariaDB, providing continuous monitoring and threat detection.

- [Microsoft Defender for Azure Cosmos DB](concept-defender-for-cosmos.md) - Provides security for Azure Cosmos DB, offering threat protection, and real-time alerts to safeguard your data.

These four database protection plans are priced separately. Get more info about Defender for Cloud's pricing on [the pricing page](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/defender-for-cloud/).

## Key Features

Defender for Databases detects anomalous activities that indicate unusual and potentially harmful attempts to access or exploit databases. Defender for Databases provides multicloud alerts for suspicious database activities, helping you respond to threats as they occur. 

The solution supports a wide range of database types, including Azure Database for PostgreSQL, MySQL, and MariaDB, as well as Amazon RDS instances for PostgreSQL, MySQL, and MariaDB. Defender for Databases simplifies the process of addressing potential threats without requiring users to be security experts or manage advanced security monitoring systems. The alerts generated by Defender for Databases are enriched with threat intelligence and can be further investigated to provide a seamless security management experience.

## Benefits

Defender for Databases continuously monitors database activities and provides real-time alerts, helping ensure the security of your data. The solution is designed to be easy to use to help you manage and respond to multicloud security threats.

## Related content

- [Protect your databases with Defender for Databases](tutorial-enable-databases-plan.md)
