---
title: Understand endpoint detection and response
description: Learn about deploying Microsoft Defender for Endpoint from Microsoft Defender for Cloud to protect Azure, hybrid, and multicloud machines.
author: dcurwin
ms.author: dacurwin
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.date: 06/23/2024
#customer intent: As a reader, I want to understand how to deploy Microsoft Defender for Endpoint from Microsoft Defender for Cloud to protect Azure, hybrid, and multicloud machines.
---

# Endpoint detection and response in Defender for Cloud

The Defender for Servers plan in Microsoft Defender for Cloud integrates natively with  [Microsoft Defender for Endpoint](/microsoft-365/security/defender-endpoint/microsoft-defender-endpoint), providing Defender for Endpoint capabilities to machine protected by Defender for Servers.

For more information about migrating servers from Defender for Endpoint to Defender for Cloud, read the [Defender for Endpoint to Defender for Cloud migration guide](/microsoft-365/security/defender-endpoint/migrating-mde-server-to-cloud).

> [!NOTE]
> - Endpoint protection recommendations currently generally available (GA) in the Defender for Servers and Defender CSPM plans, are provided using the Log Analytics agent (also known as the Microsoft Monitoring Agent (MMA)). The MMA is set to retire in August 2024. Agentless machine scanning with the MMA will be deprecated in November 2024.
> - Endpoint protection recommendations are also currently available in preview using the Azure Monitoring Agent (AMA). The AMA preview is now deprecated.
> - The MMA and AMA functionality will be replaced with EDR recommendations provided by agentless machine scanning in Defender Servers Plan 2 and Defender CSPM. Agentless machine scanning is GA.


## Integration benefits

Benefits and integration capabilities include:

- **Automated onboarding**. Defender for Cloud automatically enables the Defender for Endpoint sensor on all supported machines connected to Defender for Cloud.
- **Centralized alert monitoring**. The Defender for Cloud portal pages displays Defender for Endpoint alerts. To investigate further, use Microsoft Defender for Endpoint's own portal pages where you see additional information such as the alert process tree and the incident graph. You can also see a detailed machine timeline that shows every behavior for a historical period of up to six months.

    :::image type="content" source="./media/integration-defender-for-endpoint/microsoft-defender-security-center.png" alt-text="Microsoft Defender for Endpoint's own Security Center" lightbox="./media/integration-defender-for-endpoint/microsoft-defender-security-center.png":::

- **Advanced post-breach detection sensors**. Defenders for Endpoint's sensors collect a vast array of behavioral signals from your machines.
- **Risk-based vulnerability assessment from Microsoft Defender Vulnerability Management**. When machines are running the Defender for Endpoint sensor, Defender for Servers shows vulnerabilities discovered by Defender Vulnerability Management. Learn more about [machine vulnerability scanning](auto-deploy-vulnerability-assessment.md).

    Defender for Servers also integrates other Defender Vulnerability Management features, including [software inventory](/defender/defender-vulnerability-management/tvm-software-inventory), and [premium vulnerability management](/defender/defender-vulnerability-management/defender-vulnerability-management-capabilities) capabilities in Defender for Servers Plan 2.

- **Analytics-based, cloud-powered, post-breach detection**. Defender for Endpoint quickly adapts to changing threats. It uses advanced analytics and big data. It's amplified by the power of the Intelligent Security Graph with signals across Windows, Azure, and Office to detect unknown threats. It provides actionable alerts and enables you to respond quickly.

- **Threat intelligence**. Defender for Endpoint generates alerts when it identifies attacker tools, techniques, and procedures. It uses data generated by Microsoft threat hunters and security teams, augmented by intelligence provided by partners.


## Integration architecture

A Defender for Endpoint tenant is automatically created, when you use Defender for Cloud to monitor your machines.

- **Location:** Data collected by Defender for Endpoint is stored in the geo-location of the tenant as identified during provisioning
    - Customer data - in pseudonymized form - might also be stored in the central storage and processing systems in the United States.
    - After you configure the location, you can't change it.
    - If you have your own license for Defender for Endpoint and need to move your data to another location, [contact Microsoft support](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Support/HelpAndSupportBlade/overview) to reset the tenant.
- **Different subscription in same tenant**: To move your Defender for Endpoint extension to a different subscription in the same tenant, delete either the `MDE.Linux' or 'MDE.Windows` extension from the virtual machine and Defender for Cloud will automatically redeploy it.
- **Moving subscriptions between tenants:** If you move your Azure subscription between Azure tenants, some manual preparatory steps are required before Defender for Cloud deploys Defender for Endpoint. For full details, [contact Microsoft support](https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_Azure_Support/HelpAndSupportBlade/overview).



Check out the [minimum requirements for Defender for Endpoint](/defender-endpoint/minimum-requirements), to see what the licensing, browser, hardware, software requirements are and more.



## Related content

Learn more about the integration by watching [Defender for Servers integration with Microsoft Defender for Endpoint](episode-sixteen.md) in the Defender for Cloud in the Field video series.






